README.md, before:

# netcdf

[![Docs](https://docs.rs/netcdf/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/netcdf)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/georust/netcdf.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/georust/netcdf)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/netcdf.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/netcdf)
[![](http://meritbadge.herokuapp.com/netcdf)](https://crates.io/crates/netcdf)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/georust/netcdf/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/georust/netcdf?branch=master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/georust/netcdf/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/georust/netcdf)
![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/netcdf)
[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/georust/netcdf/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/georust/netcdf)

Medium-level [netCDF](http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/netcdf/) bindings for Rust, allowing easy reading and writing of array-like structures to a file.

## Status

Supported:

* Variables
* Normal Dimensions
* Attributes
* Subgroups
* Open/Append/Create modes
* Reading from memory (read only for now)
* Unlimited dimensions
* string variables


Not (yet) supported:

* user defined types
* enum types

All variable data is read into a 1-dimensional buffer, with the resulting layout with the last variable varying the fastest.
The data can also be read into an [ndarray](https://github.com/rust-ndarray/rust-ndarray).

## Building

This crate depends on libnetcdf. The Travis build runs on Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial and installs libnetcdf via apt, which results in netcdf v.4.4.0. netcdf is not widely tested on other versions of netcdf.

You can build the library and run the tests via Docker like this:

```
docker build . -t netcdf
docker run -it --rm netcdf
```

## Documentation

Some examples of usage can be found in the [tests/lib.rs](tests/lib.rs) file. The documentation can also be found using `cargo doc`.

## License

Licensed under either of

 * Apache License, Version 2.0, ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.

Commit message:

stricter locking
when running this program on hdf5 builds that are not threadsafe, it
seems some of the assumptions regarding thread safety in the underlying
library was too relaxed. This commit adds locking to all netcdf
functions, which will likely reduce the performance of working with
multiple files in parallel

README.md, after:

# netcdf

[![Docs](https://docs.rs/netcdf/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/netcdf)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/georust/netcdf.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/georust/netcdf)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/netcdf.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/netcdf)
[![](http://meritbadge.herokuapp.com/netcdf)](https://crates.io/crates/netcdf)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/georust/netcdf/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/georust/netcdf?branch=master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/georust/netcdf/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/georust/netcdf)
![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/netcdf)
[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/georust/netcdf/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/georust/netcdf)

Medium-level [netCDF](http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/netcdf/) bindings for Rust, allowing easy reading and writing of array-like structures to a file.

## Status

Supported:

* Variables
* Normal Dimensions
* Attributes
* Subgroups
* Open/Append/Create modes
* Reading from memory (read only for now)
* Unlimited dimensions
* string variables


Not (yet) supported:

* user defined types
* enum types

All variable data is read into a 1-dimensional buffer, with the resulting layout with the last variable varying the fastest.
The data can also be read into an [ndarray](https://github.com/rust-ndarray/rust-ndarray).

## Building

This crate depends on libnetcdf. The Travis build runs on Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial and installs libnetcdf via apt, which results in netcdf v.4.4.0. netcdf is not widely tested on other versions of netcdf.

You can build the library and run the tests via Docker like this:

```
docker build . -t netcdf
docker run -it --rm netcdf
```

## Documentation

Some examples of usage can be found in the [tests/lib.rs](tests/lib.rs) file. The documentation can also be found using `cargo doc`.


## Thread safety

The `netcdf-c` library is not threadsafe. To render a safe interface, a global mutex is used to serialize access to the underlying library. If performance is needed, consider using a non threadsafe version of `hdf5`, so double locking is avoided.

## License

Licensed under either of

 * Apache License, Version 2.0, ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.
